PDE Updates (#1293)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/12.5-palette-cli/10-install-palette-cli.md

---
title: "Install"
metaTitle: "Install"
metaDescription: "Learn how to install the Palette CLI and how you can use the CLI with Palette Dev Engine."
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';

# Installation

Use the following steps to install and set up the Palette CLI.

## Prerequisites

- A Palette account. Click [here](https://console.spectrocloud.com/) to create a Palette account.

- A Palette API key. Refer to the [API Key](/user-management/user-authentication/#apikey) reference page to learn how to create an API key.

## Download and Setup

> 1. Visit the [Downloads](/spectro-downloads#palettecli) page and download the Palette CLI by using the URL provided.

Reviewer: I guess we'll be adding the URL to the Downloads page in a few days?

2. Open up a local terminal session on your local system.

3. Navigate to your defaults download folder. For Mac and Linux environments the default location is **~/Downloads** for Windows it's **C:\Users\YourUserNameHere\Downloads**. Replace `YourUserNameHere` with the name of the user account.

4. Move the binary to a folder that is part of your system's `PATH` environment variable.

<Tabs>
<Tabs.TabPane tab="MacOS/Linux" key="linux-mac">

> Move the binary to the **/usr/local/bin** folder. Replace the download file with the name of your download file.

Reviewer: The second sentence is awkward to me. Are we replacing an old file name with a new file name? Or are filling in a placeholder value?

> Move the binary to the **/usr/local/bin** folder. Replace the download file with the name of your download file.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the following command to move the binary to the **/usr/local/bin** folder.
```

<br />

```shell
sudo mv ~/Downloads/spectro-cli-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/palette
```

</Tabs.TabPane>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="Windows" key="windows">

> Move the binary to a folder on your system. If you want to access the Palette CLI from the command-line, ensure you place the binary in a folder that is part of your system `PATH`. Check out the [Add Tool Locations to the PATH Environment Variable](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/office/developer/sharepoint-2010/ee537574(v=office.14)) for detailed steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Move the binary to a folder on your system. If you want to access the Palette CLI from the command line, ensure you place the binary in a folder that is part of your system `PATH`. Check out the [Add Tool Locations to the PATH Environment Variable](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/office/developer/sharepoint-2010/ee537574(v=office.14)) for detailed steps.
```

> Open up Command Prompt and move the file to a target folder that is part of your system `PATH`, as shown in the following command example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the Command Prompt and move the file to a target folder that is part of your system `PATH`, as shown in the following command example. 
```

<br />

```shell
move C:\Users\johndoe\Downloads\spectro-cli-darwin-amd64 C:\Users\johndoes\tools\palette
```

</Tabs.TabPane>

</Tabs>

---

<br />
   

> 5. If you will use Palette Dev Engine (PDE) complete this step. Otherwise you can skip to the validation section. Log in to Palette by using the `login` command. Replace `<YOUR-API-KEY>` with your Palette API key. If you are using a Palette self-hosted instance, replace the `--console-url` with your custom Palette URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If you will use Palette Dev Engine (PDE) complete this step. Otherwise you can skip to [Validation](/palette-cli/install-palette-cli/#validation). Log in to Palette by using the `login` command. Replace `<YOUR-API-KEY>` with your Palette API key. If you are using a Palette self-hosted instance, replace the `--console-url` with your custom Palette URL.
```

  <br />

  ```shell
  palette pde login --api-key <YOUR-API-KEY> --console-url https://console.spectrocloud.com/
  ```

## Validation

> Verify the Palette CLI is part of your system path by issuing the Palette CLI help command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify the Palette CLI is part of your system path by issuing the Palette CLI `version` command.
```

Reviewer: Did you mean `version`? 
The `version` command is not listed on the Command Reference page.

  <br />

  ```shell
  palette version
  ```

  Output:
  ```shell
  Palette CLI version: 3.4.0
  ```

  # Next Steps

> Start exploring the Palette CLI by using the `--help` command with the various commands. The Palette CLI will continue to receive more functionality in the future, so you will want to keep it updated by downloading the newest version and replacing the current binary.

Reviewer: Add some breaks after this section to separate it from Previous/Next navigators.

> Start exploring the Palette CLI by using the `--help` command with the various commands. The Palette CLI will continue to receive more functionality in the future, so you will want to keep it updated by downloading the newest version and replacing the current binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start exploring the Palette CLI by using the `--help` command with the various commands. The Palette CLI will continue to receive more functionality, so you will want to keep it updated by downloading the newest version and replacing the current binary.
```
